The Joe Rogan experience.
Can I ask you how you create a song? Like how, when,
when you're putting something like that together, do you write it out on paper?
Do you just say it until you remember it?
Like Jay Z apparently doesn't write anything. Right, right.
Just keeps it all in his head. Do you do that? Do you write it?
When I first started out my first time doggy-style I got two songs where I just
freestyle. One is called GS and hustlers, and one is called the sheers knit.
Those two songs. I just went in there and just freestyle,
whatever came out of my mind and my head at the tech.
I've been good at that for a long time.
But a lot of times I like to make sure that I'm pinpointing a specific
topic,
a specific cadence and a specific style that I'm trying to
perfect. When I'm making a song.
I'm not just trying to make a record for the day.
I'm trying to make something that's going to be here tomorrow and the next day
and the next year.
So when you said you freestyle it, you mean like when you walked in,
you really didn't know what you were going to sing when you were recording it.
Well, the song, the sheers knit was supposed to be a mic check.
I supposed to go in there and just check the mic.
My check went to my check and Dre put the beat on my check.
Check 1, 2, 1, 2. [inaudible] hop it.
Stop it hopping like a rabbit. When I take the Nina Rashi. No, I got to have it.
I stay back in the cup, retain myself. I'm thinking about the. And I'm thinking,
well, how can I make my grip?
And how can I make that straight slip said, trip got to get him. Food was grip.
As I dip around the Kona. Now a Mona,
another mission wishing upon a stall is Snoop doggy dog with the caviar
and the back of the lemon, or demo the system rail.
I'm breaking down like Evander, Holyfield, chill till the next step of soul.
I make money. And I really don't love holes to take the truth.
I swoop in the coop. I used to let that man come on, man.
That was all a freestyle. I just go into that just spit from the dome.
And it just came out and Dr. Dre just maybe made it work,
but every song is different. You know,
cause sometimes a song would come to me from just like hearing some or just
being out somewhere and be like,
I want to make a song about whatever I just went through or whatever I'm going
through or whatever is the moment. It's always a different experience.
Every time we make a song.
So sometimes it's something that you actually write out.
A lot of times the song murder was the case. I wrote that song,
um, because I was thinking about life after death.
The song was initially called Dave D a V E death after
visualizing eternity. Well,
and it was crazy that I was taking the like that.
And I had made a song called murder was the case.
That was about me losing my life. What, before I lost my life,
I did it cut a deal with the devil,
but then God came back and gave me another chance that was in my mind.
But when I wrote it, it just became some gangster,
but that was the premise behind it. And it was just in my head.
Like I want to write a song like this.
And then three months later I caught a murder case in real life. Well,
yes. So my pen was actually writing reality.
So I had to pull back from certain things. Let's table, maybe last,
you start writing about life and living instead of always writing about dying
and death.
Whoa.
Deep. Just think about my peers, me Tupac, biggie.
Like just think about our records. The last records that they made.
It was a lot of death. It has some life in it too,
but had a lot of death in it.
Yeah. That east coast, west coast. It became a, a real,
a real divide in the country with hip hop, right?
Yeah.
It was because you didn't want to be on the wrong side and you didn't want to
like, like for example, if you have friends, right.
That was leaning more towards the east coast.
And then you had a friend that really wanted to hear west coast music.
Y'all might've been y'all friendship. Yeah. Based off of that, really?
It was that serious. Yeah.
How did it, it went, it kind of isn't that way anymore though. Right?
That's good. Isn't that like a good sign for the future?
That's a great sign.
There's people working together from all parts of the world.
'Cause like in the nineties, that was a real problem.
That was a real divide that.
I was the, we couldn't control the media. Like we can now.
So even back then, east coast and west coast,
we used to hang with each other and kick it and love each other,
but we didn't control the media platform. So we couldn't,
we didn't have Instagram or Facebook and none of that. Well,
we can slap up a picture of me and NAS and JZ and this person hanging out.
I didn't have that.
All you had was the media saying the east coast and the west coast.
Don't like each other, which sides you chosen. Yeah. And that's just that.
Yeah.
And it's their job just to sell newspapers.
Right. And then once lives were lost and you could blame,
you can naturally say Tupac. Okay.
Did somebody have something to do with that? From the east coast?
We don't know biggie.
He got killed on the west coast that put speculation that maybe somebody from
the west coast asked him to do this.
Or it just kept fueling to the fire until you had people like puffy
myself, Steve Harvey, who were man enough to say, look,
we need to put an end to this.
And let people know that we don't advocate that we really love each other.
We're a family.
And we started building bridges and started doing things together and being seen
together and controlling our own narrative.
As far as what we was putting in the public side.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.